paradigm = "different ways or styles in which a given program or programming language can be organized."

What is oops?
OOPs, or Object-Oriented Programming is a programming model or paradigm which revolves around the
concept of “OBJECTS” and "classes". Objects can be considered as real-world instances of a class, that
contain some "characteristics" and "behaviors" specified in the class template.

What is class and object?
In simple language, a class can be considered as the blueprint or template, based on
which objects can be created. So the Objects are considered the instance of a class, The term
“characteristics” refers to the “what” about the Object, and the term “behavior” refers to the
“how” about the Object.
"Characteristics" are also known as data variables, or attributes, and "Behaviours" are also known
as the methods, in the programming language.

For ex-
Class = A specific car model, such as Audi A4, BMW I8, Maruti Suzuki Vitara Brezza, etc.
Object = A specific car of any model, like the car you own
Characteristics = What is the color of our car? and number of our car? etc
Behavior = How to start the car? How to change the gear of the car? etc.

What is need of oops?
There are many reasons why OOPs is mostly preferred, and many of the most widely used programming
languages support and use this model, such as Java, C++, Python, C#, etc.
but the most important among them are-
1-OOP concepts help the programmer control and access the data in a program easily. In addition, it
improves code readability and reusability.
2-With oops a big software can be easily written and managed using OOPs.
3-Using functionalities like data abstraction and data hiding, OOPs ensure the security of the code/software.
4-OOP concepts like inheritance helps us to eliminate the code redundancy.
5-Increases productivity of a developer and save development time.

Cons of oops-
1-Everything is treated as object in OOP so before applying it we need to have excellent thinking in
terms of objects.
2-Requires much effort to create a perfect OOP concept-based code.

